David Duke Exposes the Real Racist Jewish Supremacists Who Orchestrate the Destruction of European Mankind…’ Above the posting, Zakkout wrote of Duke, “I respect him for his honesty!”
In October 2015, Zakkout posted to Facebook a Duke video, within which Duke makes the wild claim that there has been a “complete takeover of American foreign policy and… American politics by Jewish extremists.” Above the video on Facebook, Zakkout praised Duke, exclaiming “David Duke, a man to believe in!”
In July 2010, the Anti-Defamation League (ADL) condemned Zakkout and his group AMANA for featuring another anti-Semitic Duke video on the AMANA website. The ADL described the video as “venomous.” Currently, AMANA’s official website contains one more Duke video. David Duke’s bigoted and inciting material is not the only hate Zakkout promotes. He also pedals much bigotry coming from others, including himself. In July 2017, Zakkout posted on his Facebook page a four-minute portion of a speech given by Louis Farrakhan at the Nation of Islam’s February 2017 Saviors’ Day. On the video, Farrakhan repeatedly refers to Jews as “Satan.” He states to his audience: “Really, they’re not Jews. No, that’s Satan. You should learn to call them by their real name, ‘Satan.’ You’re coming face to face with Satan, the Arch Deceiver, the enemy of God, and the enemy of the righteous.”
In June 2016, Zakkout clicked ‘like’ under someone else’s Facebook posting (on Zakkout’s personal Facebook page) of a grotesque cartoon containing a worried-looking religious Jew hiding behind an animated tree with a bearded man brandishing a rifle coming towards them. The tree is speaking to the man in Arabic, saying “Oh Muslim! Oh Muslim! There is a Jew behind me. Come and kill him.”
In April 2016, Zakkout promoted a report discussing the absurd notion of Jewish involvement in the September 11th attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. A photo from the report shows the burning towers with a Jewish Star affixed to one. The report begins, “It ain’t debatable!